docs: Developer Guide (#1437)
tendermint/starport: docs/guide/scavenge/index.md

  order: 5
---

# Introduction

In this tutorial, you will build a blockchain for a scavenger hunt game. In the process you will learn how to:

* Implement custom logic in the CLI commands
* Use an escrow account to store tokens

This tutorial was first presented as a workshop at GODays 2020 Berlin by [Billy Rennekamp](https://twitter.com/billyrennekamp).

The goal of this session is to get you thinking about what is possible when developing applications that have access to **digital scarcity as a primitive**. The easiest way to think of scarcity is as money; If money grew on trees it would stop being _scarce_ and stop having value. We have a long history of software which deals with money, but it's never been a first class citizen in the programming environment. Instead, money has always been represented as a number or a float, and it has been up to a third party merchant service or some other process of exchange where the _representation_ of money is swapped for actual cash. If money were a primitive in a software environment, it would allow for **real economies to exist within games and applications**, taking one step further in erasing the line between games, life and play.

> We will be working today with the Go framework [Cosmos SDK](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk). This framework makes it easy to build **deterministic state machines**. A state machine is simply an application that has a state and explicit functions for updating that state. You can think of a light bulb and a light switch as a kind of state machine: the state of the "application" is either `light on` or `light off`. There is one function in this state machine: `flip switch`. Every time you trigger `flip switch` the state of the application goes from `light on` to `light off` or vice versa.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will be working today with the Go framework [Cosmos SDK](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk). This framework makes it easy to build **deterministic state machines**. A state machine is simply an application that has a state and explicit functions for updating that state. You can think of a light bulb and a light switch as a kind of state machine: the state of the "application" is either `light on` or `light off`. There is one function in this state machine: `flip switch`. Every time you trigger `flip switch` the state of the application goes from `light on` to `light off` or vice versa.
```

> A **deterministic** state machine is a state machine in which an accumulation of actions, taken together and replayed, will have the same outcome. So if we were to take all the `switch on` and `switch off` actions of the entire month of January for some room and replay them in August, we should have the same final state of `light on` or `light off`. There should be nothing about January or August that changes the outcome (of course a _real_ room might not be deterministic if there were things like power shortages or maintenance that took place during those periods).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A **deterministic** state machine is a state machine in which an accumulation of actions, taken together and replayed, will have the same outcome. So if you were to take all the `switch on` and `switch off` actions of the entire month of January for some room and replay them in August, you should have the same final state of `light on` or `light off`. There should be nothing about January or August that changes the outcome (of course a _real_ room might not be deterministic if there were things like power shortages or maintenance that took place during those periods).
```

You might have guessed by now that what I'm really talking about are **blockchains**. These are deterministic state machines which have very specific rules about how state is updated. Blockchains checkpoint state with cryptographic hashes and use asymmetric cryptography to handle **access control**. There are different ways that different Blockchains decide who can make a checkpoint of state. These entities can be called **Validators**. Some of them are chosen by an electricity-intensive game called **proof-of-work** in tandem with something called the longest chain rule or **Nakamoto Consensus** on blockchains like Bitcoin or Ethereum.

> The state machine we are building will use an implementation of **proof-of-stake** called **Tendermint**, which is energy efficient and can consist of one or many validators, either trusted or byzantine. When building a system that handles _real_ scarcity, the integrity of that system becomes very important. One way to ensure that integrity is by sharing the responsibility of maintaining it with a large group of independently motivated participants as validators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The state machine you are building will use an implementation of **proof-of-stake** called **Tendermint**, which is energy efficient and can consist of one or many validators, either trusted or byzantine. When building a system that handles _real_ scarcity, the integrity of that system becomes very important. One way to ensure that integrity is by sharing the responsibility of maintaining it with a large group of independently motivated participants as validators.
```

> So, now that we know a little more about **why** we might build an app like this, let's dive into the game itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So, now that you know a little more about **why** you might build an app like this, start to dive into the game itself.
```
